[Logs] Add event to span event bridge (#5006)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/logs/sdk.md

for implementation out-of-process
in [OpenTelemetry Collector](../overview.md#collector).

> Additional processors defined in this document MAY be provided by SDK or Contrib

Author: per SIG meeting discussion

```suggestion
Additional processors defined in this document SHOULD be provided by SDK
```

CC  @carlosalberto @jack-berg

* `maxExportBatchSize` - the maximum batch size of every export. It must be
  smaller or equal to `maxQueueSize`. The default value is `512`.

#### Event to span event bridge

**Status**: [Development](../document-status.md)

This is an optional implementation of `LogRecordProcessor` which converts
[Events](./data-model.md#events) to span events on the current span.

This processor MAY be provided by SDK or by a Contrib package.

The processor MUST bridge a `LogRecord` to a span event if and only if all of
the following conditions are met:

* the `LogRecord` has a non-empty [Event Name](data-model.md#field-eventname).
* the `LogRecord` has a valid
  [TraceId](data-model.md#field-traceid) and
  [SpanId](data-model.md#field-spanid).
* the resolved [Context](../context/README.md) contains a current span whose
  `IsRecording` is `true`.

> * the `LogRecord`'s `TraceId` and `SpanId` are equal to the `TraceId` and

Reviewer: wondering why we need to compare and verify traced and spanids are same?

Reviewer 2: I was thinking in case the event was explicitly linked to a span other than the current span

  `SpanId` of the current span in the resolved `Context`.

If any of these conditions is not met, the processor MUST do nothing.

When a `LogRecord` is bridged, the processor MUST add exactly one span event
with the following mapping:

* the span event name MUST be the `LogRecord`'s
  [Event Name](./data-model.md#field-eventname).

> * if the `LogRecord` has a [Timestamp](./data-model.md#field-timestamp), it

Reviewer: fallback to use ObservedTimestamp?

Author: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/pull/5006/commits/79483ca3a2c586b9562a5936df5fba2d1a39f6b1

* `maxExportBatchSize` - the maximum batch size of every export. It must be
  smaller or equal to `maxQueueSize`. The default value is `512`.

#### Event to span event bridge

**Status**: [Development](../document-status.md)

> This is an optional implementation of `LogRecordProcessor` which converts

Author: ```suggestion
This is an implementation of `LogRecordProcessor` which converts
```

[Events](./data-model.md#events) to span events on the current span.

> This processor MAY be provided by SDK or by a Contrib package.

Author: ```suggestion
This processor SHOULD be provided by SDK.
```

* `maxExportBatchSize` - the maximum batch size of every export. It must be
  smaller or equal to `maxQueueSize`. The default value is `512`.

#### Event to span event bridge

**Status**: [Development](../document-status.md)

This is an optional implementation of `LogRecordProcessor` which converts
[Events](./data-model.md#events) to span events on the current span.

This processor MAY be provided by SDK or by a Contrib package.

> The processor MUST bridge a `LogRecord` to a span event if and only if all of

Reviewer 3: > IoW, we need to have some more condition to determine if LogEvents should trigger creating SpanEvents.

Include / exclude lists of glob patterns matched against event names?

> The processor MUST bridge a `LogRecord` to a span event if and only if all of

Author: > Without an additional filtering condition, all Events trigger a SpanEvent creation, not just the Exception ones. Won't that be an issue?

I don’t think this is inherently a problem. Exceptions are not the only valid source of SpanEvents, so generating them from a broader set of events can be acceptable depending on the use case.

> we need to have some more condition to determine if LogEvents should trigger creating SpanEvents.

This can be addressed by composing this processor with a [filtering processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/supplementary-guidelines.md#filtering)
, allowing users to explicitly control which event records should result in SpanEvents. Do we want to add filtering processor as a built-in processor?

> Else users might end up with dual pumping of same thing via Events and SpanEvents.

Similarly, users can rely on a [routing processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/blob/main/specification/logs/supplementary-guidelines.md#routing) to apply different processing paths for event records versus other log records, avoiding duplication.
 Do we want to add routing processor as a built-in processor?

More generally, I have a strong preference for keeping processing concerns decoupled. When functionality can be split into composable processors, it tends to improve reusability and flexibility, and avoids introducing multiple overlapping mechanisms that achieve the same outcome in slightly different ways.

the following conditions are met:

> * the `LogRecord` has a non-empty [Event Name](data-model.md#field-eventname).

Author: > This attribute MAY be used by applications using existing logging libraries so that it can be used to set the EventName field by (...) SDK components.

I expect one would use a processor that sets the EventName field with the value of the "otel.event.name". Example: https://pkg.go.dev/go.opentelemetry.io/otel/sdk/log#example-Processor-EventName

Do we want to add the event name processor as a built-in processor (separate issue/PR)?

> * the `LogRecord` has a non-empty [Event Name](data-model.md#field-eventname).

Author: I created https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification/issues/5008

with the following mapping:

* the span event name MUST be the `LogRecord`'s
  [Event Name](./data-model.md#field-eventname).
* if the `LogRecord` has a [Timestamp](./data-model.md#field-timestamp), it
  MUST be used as the span event timestamp.
* all `LogRecord`
  [Attributes](./data-model.md#field-attributes) MUST be copied to the span
  event as span event attributes.
* if the `LogRecord` has an
  [ObservedTimestamp](./data-model.md#field-observedtimestamp), the processor
  MUST add a span event attribute named `log.record.observed_time_unix_nano`
  containing that value as UNIX nanoseconds.
* if the `LogRecord` has a specified
  [SeverityNumber](./data-model.md#field-severitynumber) (i.e. not `0`), the
  processor MUST add a span event attribute named
  `log.record.severity_number` containing that value.
* if the `LogRecord` has a [Body](./data-model.md#field-body), the processor
  MUST add a span event attribute named `log.record.body` containing that value.
* if the `LogRecord` has dropped attributes, the processor MUST add a span
  event attribute named `log.record.dropped_attributes_count` containing that

>   count.

Author: ```suggestion
```

>   count.

Reviewer: Agree with this. One suggestion - make it explicit that all other fields from LogRecord are to be ignored by default/
